---
title: "2.1 Hello, World"
---

## What to do

Thanks to Professor [Brian Kernighan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brian_Kernighan), “Hello, world” has been implemented in hundreds of languages. Let’s add your implementation to the list!

* In a file called `hello.c`, in a folder called `world`, implement a program in C that prints `hello, world\n`, and that’s it!

## Advice

> Hint: Here’s the **actual code** you should write! (Quite the hint, huh?) Best to type it yourself, though, rather than copy/paste, so that you start to develop some “muscle memory” for writing code.

```c
#include <stdio.h>

int main(void)
{
    printf("hello, world\n");
}

```

**How to Begin**

Click and accept the Homework Link.

Start by clicking inside your terminal window, then execute `cd` by itself. You should find that its “prompt” resembles the below.

```bash
$

```

Next execute

```bash
mkdir world

```

This makes a folder called `world` in (the default or "root" directory of) your codespace.

Then execute

```bash
cd world

```

This changes directories into that folder. You should now see your terminal prompt as `world/ $`. You can now execute

```bash
touch hello.c

```

to create a file called `hello.c` in which you can write your code.

Recall that you can compile `hello.c` with:

```bash
make hello

```

If you don’t see an error message, it compiled successfully! You can confirm as much with

```bash
ls

```

which should list not only `hello.c` (which is source code) but also `hello` (which is machine code).

If you do see an error message, try to fix your code and try to compile it again. If you don’t understand the error message, seek help.

Once your code compiles successfully, you can execute your program with:

```bash
./hello

```

## How to Submit

* Click and accept the Homework Link on the homework main page for this week.
* Complete each assignment for this week in the Github Codespaces environment.
* Save and click “Commit changes”. 
* The autograder runs automatically; see the Actions tab for feedback.

